---
title: Questions to Ask Yourself - Earth Science
tags: EarthSci SPS SHS 
toc: true
season: 
---

# Questions to Ask Yourself : Earth Science
10-01-2021 23:10 

-  What is the difference between physical and chemical weathering?
	- [[Exogenic Processes#Physical Weathering]]
	- [[Exogenic Processes#Chemical Weathering]]
- What is weathering? 
	- [[Exogenic Processes#Weathering]]
- What is Erosion?
	- [[Exogenic Processes#Erosion]]
- What is Deposition?

“Natural phenomena like wind and water are continuously applying their surface of Earth that results in the Earth's surface eroding. ^0538a5

Both of the natural phenomena transports the eroded material to another location on Earth. This is **deposition**. ^fe08da

Deposition can affect earth positively. In ways such as creating new lands, new beaches, and many more. Examples of landforms formed due to deposition are the Mississippi Delta in the US.” ^[[@DepositionGeologyDefinition2019]] ^2d33a3


- How can weathering, erosion and deposition change landforms?

Vy: Weathering, erosion and deposition change landforms as they are all processes that occur and affect our planet, Earth. The effects of these processes change the Earth. Weathering causes rocks to break and halve. This significantly changes the geography of the Earth. ^[[Exogenic Processes#^40b47b]] Erosion wears out the surface and moves it elsewhere. This destroys and erodes the environment significantly. An example of this are arches that form due to erosion. ^[[Exogenic Processes#Erosion]] Finally, deposition is the process of eroding due to natural phenomena. Islands can even form due to this process. ^[[100120212310#^0538a5]] ^[[100120212310#^fe08da]] ^[[100120212310#^c6915f]]

Weathering, erosion and deposition can change landforms because they are processes that break or erode rocks, the surface of the earth and, depending on the process, transport these eroded materials to another place. These eroded materials transform can turn into landforms.

- How are the products of weathering carried away by erosion and deposited elsewhere?

The products of weathering are carried away by erosion due to natural phenomena such as wind, typhoons, rain, flooding, due to waterforms such as rivers that carry the eroded or weathered materials down rivers. ^[[Exogenic Processes#^042156]]

- Rocks and soil move downslope due to direct action gravity, why? What process is this?

[[Exogenic Processes#Mass Wasting]]





## See also:
1.  [[@DepositionGeologyDefinition2019]] 
2.  [[Exogenic Processes#^40b47b]] 
3.  [[Exogenic Processes#Erosion]]
4.  [[100120212310#^0538a5]]
5.  [[100120212310#^fe08da]]
6.  [[100120212310#^c6915f]] 
7.  [[Exogenic Processes#^042156]]